README.md, before:

# required PHP Coding Standards

required coding standards for PHP, inspired by the [Human Made Coding Standards](https://github.com/humanmade/coding-standards) project.

For JS coding standards head over to [wearerequired/eslint-config](https://github.com/wearerequired/eslint-config).

## Setup

1. `composer require --dev dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer wearerequired/coding-standards`
2. Run the standards checks using the following command:

```
vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

The final `.` here specifies the files you want to test; this is typically the current directory (`.`), but you can also selectively check files or directories by specifying them instead.

You can add this to your Travis CI configuration as a test:

```yaml
script:
  - phpunit
  - vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

**Bonus**: To make things easier, you can add something as follows to your `composer.json` file:

```json
{
	"scripts": {
		"format": "vendor/bin/phpcbf --report-summary --report-source .",
		"lint": "vendor/bin/phpcs --report-summary --report-source ."
	}
}
```

After that, run `composer lint` to run the standards checks and `composer format` to try auto-fixing of errors and warnings.

### Excluding Files

This standard includes special support for a `.phpcsignore` file (in the future, this should be [built into phpcs itself](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/issues/1884)). You can place a `.phpcsignore` file in your root directory (wherever you're going to run `phpcs` from).

The format of this file is similar to `.gitignore` and similar files: one pattern per line, comment lines should start with a `#`, and whitespace-only lines are ignored:

```
# Exclude our tests directory.
tests/

# Exclude any file ending with ".inc"
*\.inc
```

Note that the patterns should match [the PHP_CodeSniffer style](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/wiki/Advanced-Usage#ignoring-files-and-folders): `*` is translated to `.*` for convenience, but all other characters work like a regular expression.

Patterns are relative to the directory that the `.phpcsignore` file lives in. On load, they are translated to absolute patterns: e.g. `*/tests/*` in `/your/dir/.phpcsignore` will become `/your/dir/.*/tests/.*` as a regular expression. **This differs from the regular PHP_CodeSniffer practice.**

### Advanced/Extending

You can create your own custom standard file (e.g. `phpcs.xml.dist`) if you want to extend these coding standards:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<ruleset>
	<!-- Use required Coding Standards -->
	<rule ref="Required"/>

	<!-- Your custom rules go here -->
</ruleset>
```

You can then reference this file when running phpcs:

```
vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

## Included Checks

The phpcs standard is based upon the `WordPress-Core`, `WordPress-Docs`, and `WordPress-Extra` rules from the [WordPress Coding Standards](https://github.com/WordPress-Coding-Standards/WordPress-Coding-Standards). It also uses [VariableAnalysis](https://github.com/sirbrillig/phpcs-variable-analysis) for problematic variable use and some `SlevomatCodingStandard` rules from the [Slevomat Coding Standard](https://github.com/slevomat/coding-standard). Most of the sniffs are also providing automatic errors fixing for `phpcbf`.


## EditorConfig

The [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) standard helps developers define and maintain consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs. This way it's easier to follow the given coding standards in a project, without the need to fiddle with IDE settings.

The recommended `.editorconfig` file for a WordPress project looks like this:

```editorconfig
root = true

[*]
charset = utf-8
indent_style = tab
end_of_line = lf
insert_final_newline = true
trim_trailing_whitespace = true

[{*.md}]
trim_trailing_whitespace = false

[{*.json,*.yml,.prettierrc,.babelrc}]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```

Commit message:

Update readme for new JS coding standard

README.md, after:

# required PHP Coding Standard

required coding standard for PHP, inspired by the [Human Made Coding Standards](https://github.com/humanmade/coding-standards) project.

For the JavaScript coding standard head over to [@wearerequired/eslint-config](packages/eslint-config).

## Setup

1. `composer require --dev dealerdirect/phpcodesniffer-composer-installer wearerequired/coding-standards`
2. Run the standards checks using the following command:

```
vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

The final `.` here specifies the files you want to test; this is typically the current directory (`.`), but you can also selectively check files or directories by specifying them instead.

You can add this to your Travis CI configuration as a test:

```yaml
script:
  - phpunit
  - vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

**Bonus**: To make things easier, you can add something as follows to your `composer.json` file:

```json
{
	"scripts": {
		"format": "vendor/bin/phpcbf --report-summary --report-source .",
		"lint": "vendor/bin/phpcs --report-summary --report-source ."
	}
}
```

After that, run `composer lint` to run the standards checks and `composer format` to try auto-fixing of errors and warnings.

### Excluding Files

This standard includes special support for a `.phpcsignore` file (in the future, this should be [built into phpcs itself](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/issues/1884)). You can place a `.phpcsignore` file in your root directory (wherever you're going to run `phpcs` from).

The format of this file is similar to `.gitignore` and similar files: one pattern per line, comment lines should start with a `#`, and whitespace-only lines are ignored:

```
# Exclude our tests directory.
tests/

# Exclude any file ending with ".inc"
*\.inc
```

Note that the patterns should match [the PHP_CodeSniffer style](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer/wiki/Advanced-Usage#ignoring-files-and-folders): `*` is translated to `.*` for convenience, but all other characters work like a regular expression.

Patterns are relative to the directory that the `.phpcsignore` file lives in. On load, they are translated to absolute patterns: e.g. `*/tests/*` in `/your/dir/.phpcsignore` will become `/your/dir/.*/tests/.*` as a regular expression. **This differs from the regular PHP_CodeSniffer practice.**

### Advanced/Extending

You can create your own custom standard file (e.g. `phpcs.xml.dist`) if you want to extend these coding standards:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<ruleset>
	<!-- Use required Coding Standards -->
	<rule ref="Required"/>

	<!-- Your custom rules go here -->
</ruleset>
```

You can then reference this file when running phpcs:

```
vendor/bin/phpcs .
```

## Included Checks

The phpcs standard is based upon the `WordPress-Core`, `WordPress-Docs`, and `WordPress-Extra` rules from the [WordPress Coding Standards](https://github.com/WordPress-Coding-Standards/WordPress-Coding-Standards). It also uses [VariableAnalysis](https://github.com/sirbrillig/phpcs-variable-analysis) for problematic variable use and some `SlevomatCodingStandard` rules from the [Slevomat Coding Standard](https://github.com/slevomat/coding-standard). Most of the sniffs are also providing automatic errors fixing for `phpcbf`.


## EditorConfig

The [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) standard helps developers define and maintain consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs. This way it's easier to follow the given coding standards in a project, without the need to fiddle with IDE settings.

The recommended `.editorconfig` file for a WordPress project looks like this:

```editorconfig
root = true

[*]
charset = utf-8
indent_style = tab
end_of_line = lf
insert_final_newline = true
trim_trailing_whitespace = true

[{*.md}]
trim_trailing_whitespace = false

[{*.json,*.yml,.prettierrc,.babelrc}]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```
